---
layout: post
title: The Plan! And a start of a reading list...
---

For awhile, I've been wondering whether I want to focus exclusively on the EBTs, or if I want to take a tour through the major forms of Buddhism before returning focus there.  And I've decided on the latter!

I've decided that a bit of a tour through the major forms of Buddhism would be helpful for informing the core project.  This way, I will see the various ways the original teachings have been amplified, or re-arranged, and how emphases have shifted over the centuries.  I will be able to trace the development from the nuggets in the Sutta Piṭaka to their expression throughout Tibet and East Asia.  This will provide an interesting context for returning to the EBTs after this (probably years-long) intellectual journey.

To that end, then, the plan:

1. Finish the EBTs.  I am currently on the Saṃyutta Nikāya.  First task is to finish these.
2. Finish some other preliminary stuff.
    - *The Great Disciples of the Buddha*
    - *The Life of the Buddha* (Bhikkhu Ñāṇamoli)
    - *The Buddhist Path of Awakening* (Gethin)
    - *From Craving to Grasping* and *From Grasping to Emptiness* (Bhikkhu Anālayo)
3. Exploration of Theravāda.
    - *Abhidhamma Studies*
    - *A Guide to the Abhidhamma*
    - *Concept and Reality*
    - *A Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma*
    - *The Path of Purification*
4. Early Buddhist Schools.
5. Indian Mahāyāna:  The Sūtras, Madhyāmaka and Yogācārā, Tathāgathagarbha, and any related topics.
6. Indian Tantra.
7. East Asian Buddhism.  Start with China, then look at Korea, Japan, and Vietnam.
8. Tibetan Buddhism.

After this, I'll be able to return to the EBTs with a great deal of context.  The plan is to become conversant in each of these, and not an expert.  Maybe the level of knowledge a Ph.D. might have.